Polkadot Protocol > Architecture > System Chains > Coretime (#130)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/coretime.md

---
title: Coretime
description: Learn about the role of the Coretime system parachain, which facilitates the sale, purchase, assignment, and mechanisms of bulk coretime.
---

## Introduction

The Coretime system chain facilitates the allocation, procurement, sale, and scheduling of bulk [coretime](../../glossary.md#coretime), enabling tasks (such as [parachains](../../glossary.md#parachain)) to utilize the computation and security provided by Polkadot. 

> The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](todo:addlink), enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain rather than the relay chain. Using XCMP's Upward Message Passing (UMP) to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain.

Reviewer: Ideally, UMP should have a reference to the XCM's glossary within the XCM section. afaik that's not ready yet, but it would be nice to add it in the future

Otherwise, we can also link to - https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-xcm-transport#ump-upward-message-passing

```suggestion
The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}, enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain rather than the relay chain. Using [XCMP's Upward Message Passing (UMP)](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank} to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain.
```

> The Fellowship RFC: [RFC-1: Agile Coretime](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0001-agile-coretime.md){target=_blank} contains the specification for the Coretime system chain and Coretime as a concept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Fellowship RFC: [RFC-1: Agile Coretime](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0001-agile-coretime.md){target=\_blank} contains the specification for the Coretime system chain and Coretime as a concept.
```

Besides core management, its responsibilities include: 

- The number of cores that should be made available
- Which tasks should be running on which cores and in what ratios
- Accounting information for the on-demand pool

> From the relay chain, it expects the following via Downward Message Passing (DMP):

Reviewer: Same as UMP

```suggestion
From the relay chain, it expects the following via [Downward Message Passing (DMP)](TODO:update-path){target=\_blank}:
```

- The number of cores available to be scheduled
- Account information on on-demand scheduling

> The details for this interface can be found in [RFC-5: Coretime Interface](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0005-coretime-interface.md){target=_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The details for this interface can be found in [RFC-5: Coretime Interface](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0005-coretime-interface.md){target=\_blank}.
```

## Bulk Coretime Assignment

The Coretime chain allocates coretime before its usage. It also manages the ownership of a core. As cores are made up of regions (by default, one core is a single region), a region is recognized as a non-fungible asset. The Coretime chain exposes Regions over XCM as an NFT. Users can transfer individual regions, partition, interlace, or allocate them to a task. Regions describe how a task may use a core.

!!!tip "One core can contain more than one region."
    A core can be considered a logical representation of an active validator set on the relay chain, where these validators commit to verifying the state changes for a particular task running on that region. With partitioning, having more than one region per core is possible, allowing for different computational schemes. Therefore, running more than one task on a single core is possible.

<!-- TODO: Some sort of diagram of this would be pretty helpful, maybe -->

Regions can be managed in the following manner on the Coretime chain:

> - **Assigning Region**: Regions can be assigned to a task on the relay chain, such as a parachain/rollup using the [`assign`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.assign.html){target=_blank} dispatchable.
> 
> !!!tip "Coretime Availability"
>     When Bulk Coretime is obtained, it is not immediately available for block production. It becomes available for producing blocks for a task in the next Coretime cycle. To view the status of the current or next Coretime cycle, go to the [Subscan Coretime Dashboard](https://coretime-polkadot.subscan.io/coretime_dashboard){target=_blank}.
> 
> - **Transferring Regions**: Regions may be transferred on the Coretime chain, upon which the [`transfer`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.transfer.html){target=_blank} [dispatchable](../../glossary.md#dispatchable) in the Broker pallet would assign a new owner to that specific region.
> 
> - **Partitioning Regions**: Using the [`partition`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.partition.html){target=_blank} dispatchable, regions may be partitioned into two non-overlapping subregions within the same core. A partition involves specifying a *pivot*, wherein the new region will be defined and available for use.
> 
> - **Interlacing Regions**: Using the [`interlace`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.interlace.html){target=_blank} dispatchable, interlacing regions allows a core to have alternative-compute strategies. Whereas partitioned regions are non-overlappable, interlaced regions overlap because multiple tasks may utilize a single core in an alternating manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assigning Region** - regions can be assigned to a task on the relay chain, such as a parachain/rollup using the [`assign`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.assign.html){target=_blank} dispatchable

!!!tip "Coretime Availability"
    When Bulk Coretime is obtained, block production is not immediately available. It becomes available to produce blocks for a task in the next Coretime cycle. To view the status of the current or next Coretime cycle, go to the [Subscan Coretime Dashboard](https://coretime-polkadot.subscan.io/coretime_dashboard){target=\_blank}.

- **Transferring Regions** - regions may be transferred on the Coretime chain, upon which the [`transfer`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.transfer.html){target=\_blank} [dispatchable](../../glossary.md#dispatchable) in the Broker pallet would assign a new owner to that specific region

- **Partitioning Regions** - using the [`partition`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.partition.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, regions may be partitioned into two non-overlapping subregions within the same core. A partition involves specifying a *pivot*, wherein the new region will be defined and available for use

- **Interlacing Regions** - using the [`interlace`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.interlace.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, interlacing regions allows a core to have alternative-compute strategies. Whereas partitioned regions are non-overlappable, interlaced regions overlap because multiple tasks may utilize a single core in an alternating manner
```

> - **Assigning Region** - regions can be assigned to a task on the relay chain, such as a parachain/rollup using the [`assign`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.assign.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable
> 
> !!!tip "Coretime Availability"
>     When Bulk Coretime is obtained, block production is not immediately available. It becomes available to produce blocks for a task in the next Coretime cycle. To view the status of the current or next Coretime cycle, go to the [Subscan Coretime Dashboard](https://coretime-polkadot.subscan.io/coretime_dashboard){target=\_blank}.
> 
> - **Transferring Regions** - regions may be transferred on the Coretime chain, upon which the [`transfer`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.transfer.html){target=\_blank} [dispatchable](/polkadot-protocol/glossary/#dispatchable){target=\_blank} in the Broker pallet would assign a new owner to that specific region
> 
> - **Partitioning Regions** - using the [`partition`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.partition.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, regions may be partitioned into two non-overlapping subregions within the same core. A partition involves specifying a *pivot*, wherein the new region will be defined and available for use
> 
> - **Interlacing Regions** - using the [`interlace`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.interlace.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, interlacing regions allows a core to have alternative-compute strategies. Whereas partitioned regions are non-overlappable, interlaced regions overlap because multiple tasks may utilize a single core in an alternating manner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Assigning region** - regions can be assigned to a task on the relay chain, such as a parachain/rollup using the [`assign`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.assign.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable

!!!tip "Coretime Availability"
    When bulk coretime is obtained, block production is not immediately available. It becomes available to produce blocks for a task in the next Coretime cycle. To view the status of the current or next Coretime cycle, go to the [Subscan Coretime Dashboard](https://coretime-polkadot.subscan.io/coretime_dashboard){target=\_blank}.

- **Transferring regions** - regions may be transferred on the Coretime chain, upon which the [`transfer`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.transfer.html){target=\_blank} [dispatchable](/polkadot-protocol/glossary/#dispatchable){target=\_blank} in the Broker pallet would assign a new owner to that specific region

- **Partitioning regions** - using the [`partition`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.partition.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, regions may be partitioned into two non-overlapping subregions within the same core. A partition involves specifying a *pivot*, wherein the new region will be defined and available for use

- **Interlacing regions** - using the [`interlace`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.interlace.html){target=\_blank} dispatchable, interlacing regions allows a core to have alternative-compute strategies. Whereas partitioned regions are non-overlap-able, interlaced regions overlap because multiple tasks may utilize a single core in an alternating manner
```

Non-overlap-able? haha I have no idea, this is weird. Grammarly didn't really know what to do with it either

Reviewer: non-overlappable -> "mutually exclusive" 

wdyt @eshaben ?

Reviewer 2: yes, sounds good!

Reviewer 2: @nhussein11 ☝️

> For more information regarding these mechanisms, visit the Coretime page on the Polkadot Wiki: [Introduction to Agile Coretime](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-agile-coretime){target=\_blank}. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information regarding these mechanisms, visit the coretime page on the Polkadot Wiki: [Introduction to Agile Coretime](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-agile-coretime){target=\_blank}. 
```

## On Demand Coretime

> At this writing, on-demand coretime is currently deployed on the relay chain and will eventually be deployed to the coretime chain. On-demand coretime allows parachains (previously known as parathreads) to utilize available cores per block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this writing, on-demand coretime is currently deployed on the relay chain and will eventually be deployed to the Coretime chain. On-demand coretime allows parachains (previously known as parathreads) to utilize available cores per block.
```

When referring to the chain, we can capitalize coretime, otherwise we should not. That's why some of my comments capitalize only certain instances of coretime

> The coretime chain also handles Coretime sales, details of which can be found on the Polkadot Wiki: [Agile Coretime: Coretime Sales](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-agile-coretime#coretime-sales){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Coretime chain also handles coretime sales, details of which can be found on the Polkadot Wiki: [Agile Coretime: Coretime Sales](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-agile-coretime#coretime-sales){target=\_blank}.
```

> ## What's Next?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Where to Go Next
```

---
title: Coretime
description: Learn about the role of the Coretime system parachain, which facilitates the sale, purchase, assignment, and mechanisms of bulk coretime.
---

## Introduction

> The Coretime system chain facilitates the allocation, procurement, sale, and scheduling of bulk [coretime](../../glossary.md#coretime), enabling tasks (such as [parachains](../../glossary.md#parachain)) to utilize the computation and security that Polkadot provides. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Coretime system chain facilitates the allocation, procurement, sale, and scheduling of bulk [coretime](../../glossary.md#coretime), enabling tasks (such as [parachains](../../glossary.md#parachain)) to utilize the computation and security provided by Polkadot. 
```

> The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](todo:addlink), enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain, rather than on the relay chain. Using XCM's upwards message passing (UMP) to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain, utilizing the security that the relay chain provides.

Reviewer 3: UMP is messaging protocol. XCM is a message format/language.

```suggestion
The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](todo:addlink), enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain, rather than on the relay chain. Using XCMP's Upward Message Passing (UMP) to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain.
```

> The Coretime system chain facilitates the allocation, procurement, sale, and scheduling of bulk [coretime](../../glossary.md#coretime), enabling tasks (such as [parachains](../../glossary.md#parachain)) to utilize the computation and security provided by Polkadot. 
> 
> The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](todo:addlink), enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain, rather than on the relay chain. Using XCMP's Upward Message Passing (UMP) to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain.
> 
> The specification for the Coretime system chain, along with Coretime as a concept, can be found in the Fellowship RFC: [RFC-1: Agile Coretime](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0001-agile-coretime.md){target=_blank}. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Coretime system chain facilitates the allocation, procurement, sale, and scheduling of bulk [coretime](../../glossary.md#coretime), enabling tasks (such as [parachains](../../glossary.md#parachain)) to utilize the computation and security provided by Polkadot. 

The [Broker pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=_blank}, along with [Cross Consensus Messaging (XCM)](todo:addlink), enables this functionality to be delegated to the system chain rather than the relay chain. Using XCMP's Upward Message Passing (UMP) to the relay chain allows for core assignments to take place for a task registered on the relay chain.

The Fellowship RFC: [RFC-1: Agile Coretime](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0001-agile-coretime.md){target=_blank} contains the specification for the Coretime system chain and Coretime as a concept.
```

Besides core management, its responsibilities include: 

> - The number of cores that should be made available

Author: The Coretime chain: https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/struct.StatusRecord.html#structfield.core_count

- Which tasks should be running on which cores and in what ratios
- Accounting information for the on-demand pool

> From the relay chain, it expects the following via downwards message passing (DMP):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the relay chain, it expects the following via Downward Message Passing (DMP):
```

- The number of cores available to be scheduled
- Account information on on-demand scheduling

The details for this interface can be found in [RFC-5: Coretime Interface](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/RFCs/blob/main/text/0005-coretime-interface.md){target=_blank}.

## Bulk Coretime Assignment

The Coretime chain allocates coretime before its usage. It also manages the ownership of a core. As cores are made up of regions (by default, one core is a single region), a region is recognized as a non-fungible asset. The Coretime chain exposes Regions over XCM as an NFT. Users can transfer individual regions, partition, interlace, or allocate them to a task. Regions describe how a task may use a core.

> !!!info "One core can contain more than one region."
>  A core can be considered a logical representation of an active validator set on the relay chain, where these validators commit to verifying the state changes for a particular task running on that region. With partitioning, having more than one region per core is possible, allowing for different computational schemes. Therefore, running more than one task on a single core is possible.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
!!!info "One core can contain more than one region."
    A core can be considered a logical representation of an active validator set on the relay chain, where these validators commit to verifying the state changes for a particular task running on that region. With partitioning, having more than one region per core is possible, allowing for different computational schemes. Therefore, running more than one task on a single core is possible.
```

<!-- TODO: Some sort of diagram of this would be pretty helpful, maybe -->

### Assigning Region

Regions can be assigned to a task on the relay chain, such as a parachain/rollup. 

### Transferring Regions

Regions may be transferred on the Coretime chain, upon which the [`transfer`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/pallet/dispatchables/fn.transfer.html){target=_blank} [dispatchable](../../glossary.md#dispatchable) in the Broker pallet would assign a new owner to that specific region.

### Partitioning Regions

Regions may be partitioned into two non-overlapping subregions within the same core. A partition involves specifying a *pivot*, wherein the new region will be defined and available for use.

### Interlacing Regions

> Interlacing a region adds the ability to have alternative-compute strategies for a core. Whereas partitioned regions are non-overlappable, interlaced regions overlap because multiple tasks may utilize a single core alternatingly.

Reviewer 4: Having these headers for such short information seems strange from a visual perspective. Maybe you can add more details on each section to make them longer or just replace this structure with list items. What do you think?

Author: List items sounds good to me, will go with that
